Story Recapped here.
Today I'm going to explain a science fiction
psychological thriller film called 10 Cloverfield
Lane.
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
In New Orleans, a fashion designer named Michelle
frantically packs a suitcase.
She heads out, leaving her keys and a diamond
ring behind.
She drives out of the city, plagued with troubles
in her mind.
While filling up her car at a gas station
that evening, Michelle sees a suspicious truck
park behind her car.
She ignores it and continues her journey.
Back on the road, she receives a call from
Ben, her ex-fiance.
Ben begs for her to come back, but Michelle
refuses to speak.
The couple had a fight which caused Michelle
to leave abruptly.
Tired of his pleading, Michelle ends the call
and turns the radio on.
The news reports a power surge that caused
a widespread blackout in the city.
Ben calls her again, but something crashes
onto her car before she can answer, causing
it to flip off the road.
Michelle wakes up in a nondescript concrete
room, seeing her leg injured and chained to
the wall.
The power hums, waning in and out.
Michelle tries to pry the shackles off, but
it's no use.
Michelle weeps, confused and terrified.
Not wanting to be a victim, she grabs the
IV pole and uses it to grab her phone from
the opposite corner of the room.
She's successful only to find her phone has
no service.
Heavy footsteps sound from the other side
of the wall.
Michelle covers herself with a blanket, awaiting
her captor.
A large man enters, carrying a plate of food
and a gun on his belt.
Michelle begs for her life, but the man doesn't
acknowledge her.
Instead, he fixes her IV bag.
The man, Howard, claims that he simply intends
to keep her alive.
He gives her a set of crutches, telling her
to practice walking with them.
Michelle bluffs, telling him that her fiance
will call the cops.
Howard confidently tells her that no one is
looking for her before tossing her the key
to the chains.
As soon as he's out, Michelle frees herself
and puts on clothes.
She tries to open the door, but it's locked.
Determined to escape, she uses the key to
file a sharp end on her crutch.
She opens the vent in her room and lights
her shirt on fire, producing enough smoke
to trigger the fire alarm and force Howard
to return.
Ready to fight, she waits by the door and
ambushes him.
But Howard grabs her and injects a sedative
on her arm.
Michelle wakes up in the same room, food waiting
for her.
Howard admires her spunk but says that she
should be thankful that he found her.
Michelle begs for her freedom again, but Howard
tells her there's nowhere else to go.
Howard recounts saving her from the car crash.
He explains that a potential nuclear attack
happened, but they're safe in his bunker.
Hoping to get on his good side, Michelle thanks
him but suggests that she needs a hospital.
This frustrates Howard, claiming that the
air outside is contaminated, and it could
be a few years before it's safe to go out.
Michelle wants to call her family, but Howard
is sure that everyone outside is dead.
A noise from outside informs Michelle that
there's someone else with them in the bunker.
Howard locks her in the room again before
dealing with the other person.
Hours later, Michelle wakes up to find the
door is finally open.
She walks out and sees a hallway full of supplies.
There, she meets the other resident, Emmett,
whose arm is injured.
Michelle brings up trying to escape with him,
but Emmett is also convinced that the air
outside is contaminated.
Howard finds them, telling Michelle that the
sound earlier was Emmett knocking down a week's
worth of food.
Howard gives them a tour of the common area
stocked with DVDs, books, and other entertainment
media.
Howard lays down some rules, including the
no-touch rule.
He shows Michelle his private room, where
the only bathroom in the bunker is, asking
her to take a shower.
Despite Michelle's insistence on privacy,
Howard decides to keep watch by the door,
as he doesn't trust her yet.
While preparing a meal, Howard mentions Megan
but only says that she's not with them any
longer.
When the power fluctuates, Michelle suggests
that it's caused by a car above them.
Howard insists that there is no one above
them.
Seeing that Michelle still doubts him, he
takes her to the exit with a window to the
outside world.
There, Michelle sees his decaying pigs, whom
Howard claims have died due to the poisoned
air.
Michelle turns her eyes across the field,
seeing Howard's truck.
Her mind plays the moments before the crash,
sure that this was the same truck that ran
her off the road.
Michelle's suspicions towards Howard grow.
Emmet gives Michelle information about Howard.
Howard worked on satellites for the military
before moving to the farm, where Emmett helped
Howard build the bunker.
Michelle shares her theory that Howard purposefully
crashed her car to kidnap her, but Emmett
doesn't believe this.
The day he came into the bunker, Emmett saw
the explosion.
Knowing that Howard's theories about the apocalypse
were coming true, Emmett fought his way into
the bunker to survive, injuring his arm in
the process.
Michelle insists that she heard a car above
the bunker earlier, but Howard interrupts
her and invites them to dinner.
Michelle is uneasy at the dining table, wondering
if Howard heard what she said.
Emmett tries to start a casual conversation
with the other two.
This helps Michelle lighten up, much to Howard's
frustration.
Emmett's jovial mood angers Howard, but he
pushes this down, simply telling Emmett that
he'd rather eat in peace.
Watching how Howard is easily annoyed, Michelle
formulates an idea.
She focuses her attention on Emmett, seemingly
flirting with him.
Howard is visibly jealous and enraged.
When he sees Michelle touch Emmett's hand,
he slams the table and corners Michelle, accusing
her of insulting him.
Emmett tries to calm him down but is also
afraid of him.
After they're seated down, Michelle hides
keys in her hands under the table, having
taken them from Howard.
The sound of a car overhead catches all of
their attention.
Seeing an opportunity, Michelle grabs a bottle
and slams it across Howard's face.
She climbs up the table and to the bunker's
exit.
Her hands shake as she unlocks the door.
Howard clambers up the steps, barely reaching
her before she opens the first door and closing
it behind her.
She starts opening the second door but spots
a car in front.
Hope fills Michelle.
She starts calling for help while still struggling
with the locks on the door.
Suddenly, a woman covered with lesions crashes
against the door, begging Michelle to let
her in.
Howard orders Michelle not to let her in.
Finally realizing that Howard may be telling
the truth, Michelle stops unlocking the door
and asks Howard if they can help the woman.
The woman starts banging her head on the door.
The frightened Michelle backs away.
After the event, Michelle is kept in the concrete
room again.
Howard confesses that he crashed her car,
but it was an accident.
He knew the attack was coming after hearing
the news.
He drove in a panic to get back to his bunker,
and it caused him to crash her car.
He offers her a set of Megan's old clothes
to clean up.
After showering, Howard tells her that the
woman outside was a neighbor, Leslie, who
could've heard about his bunker.
He then has Michelle stitch up the wound she
caused on his face.
After giving Michelle her belongings from
her car, Howard finally opens up about his
estranged daughter, Megan, who was taken to
Chicago by her mother.
Later, Emmett tells Michelle how he competed
in track competitions, which got him accepted
to Louisiana Tech University.
But he got scared about failing and didn't
go.
This prompts Michelle to share how she was
always protected by her brother when their
father got mad.
But when she had a chance to help another
girl with an enraged father, Michelle still
got scared and ran.
She regrets her actions, but Emmett promises
her that their lives can still mean something
since they're still alive.
Over the next few days, the trio adjusted
to life underground, enjoying each other's
camaraderie.
One day, the bunker shakes, and they hear
helicopters flying overhead as the power flickers.
Howard figures that even if it's the military,
it might be the enemy sweeping the ground
for survivors.
An alarm sounds.
Their air filtration system is blocked.
Michelle is assigned to climb into the vents
and restart the air filtration system.
Inside the cramped space, Michelle struggles
but eventually reaches the mechanical room.
She restarts the system as Howard instructed
and is relieved to hear it running again.
Then, she sees a ladder leading up to a hatch
to the outside.
On the window, she finds scratches that spell
HELP.
At the bottom of the ladder, Michelle picks
up a familiar-looking earring.
While they're alone, Michelle shows Emmett
the earrings that looked like they had blood
on them.
Then she shows Megan's photo wearing the same
earring.
But Emmett recognizes the girl in the photo
as Brittany, who went to high school with
his sister and went missing two years ago.
Michelle tells him about the word HELP scratched
from the inside of the room.
Another photo slips out of Howard's book,
one of Brittany and Howard sitting together.
Brittany's shirt is the same one that Michelle
is wearing.
Emmett plots to take Howard captive and get
him to confess what he did to Brittany.
Michelle questions who Howard can confess
to, as there's nobody else but them.
Howard interrupts them and tells Michelle
to shower.
While preparing her shower, Michelle stares
at the shower curtain, formulating a plan.
She shows Emmett a drawing she did on a magazine,
convincing him to follow along.
Later that night, Emmett grabs a pair of scissors
from the kitchen.
Then, he convinces Howard that Michelle may
have contaminated his bathroom when she took
a shower after fixing the air filtration system.
As a precaution, Howard disposes of the shower
curtain, but Michelle secretly retrieves it.
Using various materials in the bunker, Michelle
makes a hazmat suit so that one of them could
go outside and look for help.
While playing a board game, Emmett becomes
flustered, making Howard suspicious.
Later that day, Michelle continues to work
on the hazmat suit when Howard arrives, barely
giving her time to hide everything.
Michelle, Howard, and Emmet transfer a barrel
from the kitchen to Howard's room.
Howard explains that the acid inside can dissolve
most biological material, including humans.
Howard starts interrogating them about his
tools, threatening to dissolve them into the
acid.
Hoping to calm him down, Emmett lies that
he took the tools to make a weapon, and Michelle
had nothing to do with it.
He tells Howard that he wanted Michelle to
respect him the way she respects Howard.
He apologizes, and Howard accepts it, then
shoots Emmett in the face.
Michelle cowers in fear, with Howard holding
her, telling her that Emmett would have hurt
her.
He asks her to go to her room while he disposes
of Emmett's body.
Alone, Michelle mourns for Emmett, looking
at the ID from his wallet.
Howard walks in, and she sees that he had
cleaned up and shaved.
He leaves her a bowl of ice cream.
Michelle finds the bus ticket that Emmett
was supposed to use to go to the university.
Not wanting Emmett to have died in vain, Michelle
decides to go through with the plan alone.
She continues making the hazmat suit before
Howard calls her for dinner.
She hides the make-shift gas mask in the vent
just before Howard walks in.
But a screw on the vent falls.
He checks on it and asks her why it's loose.
Then, he spots a part of the suit under her
mattress.
Furious, he drags her off the mattress and
reveals the suit underneath.
Michelle locks the door with Howard still
inside.
She searches Howard's room and takes a chemical
coolant.
Howard stops her, but she kicks the barrel
of acid towards him, causing him to tumble
down, gurgling in pain.
Michelle climbs over him and escapes.
The acid causes a fire in the living room,
setting off the alarm.
Michelle gathers the hazmat suit and mask
from her room.
Howard staggers towards her, his body half-burnt.
She brings down a shelf to stop him, climbing
over it to escape.
The fire blocks her way to the bunker's exit.
Michelle climbs into the vent, hoping to escape
through the mechanical room hatch instead.
Howard hears her crawling inside the vent
and starts stabbing a knife into it.
He grabs Michelle by the ankle, but she kicks
her legs until he releases her.
In the mechanical room, Michelle hurriedly
puts on the hazmat suit, using duct tape to
seal every seam.
She climbs to the hatch and freezes the padlock
with the chemical coolant.
After numerous attempts, she breaks it and
opens the hatch.
Finally above ground, Michelle breathes heavily,
looking around for any sign of life.
She sees Howard's old truck and gets inside
but rips a tear in her suit.
Fearing contamination, she seals it with duct
tape.
Once fixed, Michelle hears a flock of birds
flying overhead.
She watches them, realizing that the birds
should have died if the air was poisoned.
Taking the risk, she removes her mask, waiting
for the worst.
But nothing happens.
Relieved, Michelle chuckles.
A rumbling from afar catches her attention.
She climbs on top of the truck and sees an
aircraft.
Something moves from inside the nearby shed.
Thinking that it's Howard, Michelle hides
behind the truck.
Instead, the bunker explodes.
Michelle watches the aircraft turn, alerted
by the explosion.
As it gets nearer, it dawns on her that the
aircraft is an alien.
Michelle gets back in the truck, searching
for the key.
When she can't find it, she goes to Leslie's
car but triggers its alarm.
Michelle rushes to the shed to hide, seeing
Leslie's body inside.
She checks outside and sees a creature coming
out of the field.
Michelle searches Leslie's body for the keys,
but the creature peers into the shed.
Michelle finally takes the keys and shuts
the alarm off, diverting the alien's attention
back to it.
Michelle crawls out of the shed and runs to
the house nearby.
The creature hears her and gives chase.
Both Michelle and the alien stop when a rumbling
comes from the house.
Behind the house, the alien aircraft looms
over.
Seeing it release gas, Michelle retrieves
her mask and frantically seals it on.
The gas causes another explosion just before
it passes.
Michelle gets up, alerting the creature to
attack.
She gets inside the truck but fails to close
it.
The creature opens its mouth, grabbing hold
of her mask, before pulling away with its
prize.
Michelle closes the truck, but the truck is
pulled into the air by the alien aircraft.
Seeing the large being above her, Michelle
sinks, losing hope.
Beside her, she finds a lighter, giving her
an idea.
She grabs the liquor rolling on the floor
and creates a Molotov cocktail.
When the creature opens its mouth, Michelle
throws the explosive inside.
The alien explodes and drops the truck.
The alien aircraft crashes and burns on the
field.
Michelle wakes up and gets out of the truck.
She takes time to catch her breath, finally
having time to let the situation sink in.
She spots Leslie's car, undamaged.
She gets inside, thankful that the car still
works.
Michelle drives off, knocking down the mailbox
that bears the address, "10 Cloverfield."
The car radio picks up a transmission.
The broadcast directs survivors to go to Baton
Rouge.
It also requests help from people with medical
and combat experience, asking them to help
survivors in Houston.
Michelle finds herself at the crossroads between
Baton Rouge and Houston, thinking of which
path she'll take.
She heads to Houston to help the survivors
fight.